- [Narrator] APIs can expose sensitive data
and operations that we want to protect
from unauthorized access.
OAS provides us with a security scheme
to define how an API is secured,
so that we can protect those sensitive resources.
Within SwaggerHub, we can use a template
to easily define a security scheme.
So let's create a new API definition,
and within the dialogue box we want
to make sure that it's Version 3.0
of the OAS spec that we're using.
And then within the templates,
you'll notice that we have several templates
that are dedicated to providing security schemes
for several OAuth flows.
We're going to go ahead and pick the
Password Flow, and at this point
we're going to name our API the security template
and we can go ahead and create it.
Once the API is created,
we're navigated into the editor,
and if we scroll down to the bottom
of this API definition,
you can find the security scheme that
was created within the template.
The security scheme specifies that we're
using OAuth, and then it further specifies
that we're using the Password Flow.
Here you can see we're able to specify
the token endpoint that an API consumer can
receive and access token from, once
providing the appropriate parameters
defined by the OAuth protocol.
And then, within this we also define
our scopes, and we have two simple scopes,
write and read.
So let's grab this portion of the API definition,
and we can copy it to our clipboard.
And now we're going to navigate back to
My hub and into the h plus sports API
API definition.
At the bottom of our API definition we
find our components object, and that's
where we can place our security scheme
to be reused throughout our API definition.
At this point securing one of our operations
on the API is extremely simple, so let's
scroll up and we're going to secure this
post operation on the product path.
Because we don't want anybody to be able
to create a product within h plus sports catalog,
so to do that we simply use the security
object, underneath our operation, and then
we're able to specify, in an array, the
password property, and inside the password
property we simply place one of the scopes
that were found within our security scheme.
So here I'm specifying the right scope is used
to protect that post operation.
At this point we can save our API definition,
documentation.
So if you've ever worked with an API and had
to authenticate in order to access a secure
API resource, you know how valuable it is to have
this sort of information as a consumer of an API.
So this is going to increase your API adoption.
Now one of the other things I'd like to cover
while we're here, we no longer need the security
template, so if we navigate into the security
template API, we can click on the name and here
we get some options.
So you have the ability to fork the API, you can
transfer ownership to another organization or
another user of SwaggerHub, and then here you see
the ability to delete an API.
You'll need to confirm via this dialogue that
you no longer need the API.
So let's just go ahead and do that,
and that's going to return us back to My hub,
and the other thing we're going to do is
change this name.
It's not too friendly for this API.
It's our catalog, so what we'd like
to do is change this over to the h plus sports
catalog API, and then we can actually change
the API name by renaming it within SwaggerHub.
So let's just call this catalog, and we can
rename the API, and it's going to tell us we
have unsaved changes.
Let's save those.
And now with those changes in place, you'll see
that we have the catalog API within the h plus
sports organization.